---
title: GEOL 490/590 style guide
author: admin
date: '2019-09-03'
slug: geol-490-590-style-guide
categories: []
tags: []
---

# Style *is* substance

Donald Knuth famously wrote "Instead of imagining that our main task is to instruct a computer what to do, let us concentrate rather on explaining to human beings what we want a computer to do." ([Knuth, 1983, Literate Programming](http://www.literateprogramming.com/knuthweb.pdf)).

Accordingly, it is important to write our code so that it is easily readable by humans. What defines easily readable? Well, it helps for the whole community of readers to be working from a common set of rules. We'll adopt Hadley Wickham's [tidyverse style guide](https://style.tidyverse.org/) for our class, with a few modifications listed below.

# Modifications for GEOL 490/590

Much of the tidyverse style guide is focused on writing packages for use by other R users. At first, we will mainly need to pay attention to what is in sections [1](https://style.tidyverse.org/files.html) and [2](https://style.tidyverse.org/syntax.html), which deal with naming files and syntax. I'm going to add a few other rules that will be particularly useful for us. 

## Commenting

* All scripts should begin with lines of comments that
    - Explain the general purpose of the script
    - Reference the script to an assignment, if necessary (e.g., `For Homework 4`)
    - Include the name of the author: not strictly necessary, but sometimes useful when we're passing around scripts.
* The scope of the comment should be reflected by its position and the number of lines it occupies. 
    - Script header comments are at least 3 lines:
    ```
    #########
    # Script for Homework 4, badplot assignment
    #########
    ```
    - Comments that refer to a few lines of code will typically occupy a single line
    - Comments on a single part of a piped expression or plot should follow the relevant line. For instance:
    ```
    p <- ggplot(mtcars, aes(x = mpg, y = qsec)) + 
        geom_point() + 
        geom_smooth(method = "lm") + # Point of analysis is to estimate a relationship between efficiency and speed
        theme_minimal()
    ``` 
* Remember that comments should explain **why** the code was written, not **how** the code works

## Script organization

1. Start with header comment
2. Load all libraries next
3. Define any variables that are used throughout the script (e.g., `fig.width = 7.5`) and graphical theme (`theme_set(theme_classic())`)
4. Organize the script in hierarchical sections, defined by comments

## Object names

* Name lists, data frames, and function in `snake_case` using a `_` separator: 
`med_enzymes`
* Name vectors in `snake.case` using a `.` separator: `site.temperatures`

## Modifications

* We should modify this guide as we progress through the class! This will be a good way to practice forking and making pull requests in git.

