---
title: 'Homework 3'
author: Drew
date: '2019-08-29'
slug: homework-3
categories: []
tags: []
---

# Data visualization theory

* Read Healy chapters 1-4. 
* Bring two plots you found in the primary literature (printed out, ideally)
	* One that you think succeeds in an interesting way
	* One that you think fails in an interesting way
	* For the one that fails: do a pen-and-paper sketch of how it might be improved. No need to be precise, the goal is just to communicate the gist of what a better version of that plot would look like.

# Basic ggplotery

Using your own data write a script to make the following plots. I've mentioned some code you'll want to include. 

	* A scatter plot: `geom_point()`
    * A density plot:`geom_density()`, note that this requires only an x aesthetic
    * A scatter plot with a linear regression with a shaded area for the confidence interval: `geom_point() + geom_smooth(method = "lm", se = TRUE)`
    * A scatter plot with multiple categories of data points, where the category is mapped to the color of the points: `aes(colour = my.category)`
    * A scatter plot with multiple categories of data points, where each category is presented in its own 'facet': `facet_wrap(~my.category)` (how is `facet_grid` different?)
    * A scatter plot with vertical errorbars: `geom_pointrange()`
	* A box-and-whiskers plot with superimposed, 'dodged' points: `geom_boxplot() + geom_point(position = position_dodge())`)
	

If you don't have your own data suited to the purpose, there are a bunch of datasets built into R. The `data()` function lists them all. These are contained within the **datasets** package, which is one of the packages that are automatically loaded every time R starts. 

Thus, you can access them just by typing their name. See, for instance, `head(iris)`. Remember that **ggplot2** only works with data frames, but some of these data sets are weird and somewhat-obsolete classes of objects, like 'Time-Series'. `is.data.frame()` and `as.data.frame()` are helpful here. 